From our long journey throughout Lexington, where we met a multitude of people, our group of detectives believes that the Americans shot first at the Battle of Lexington on April 19, 1775, due to the evidence we gathered. We first start at the clock shop where we meet Lydia, the shop owner’s daughter, but she does not give us any information and simply warns us to not trust everyone around us. After going to the meeting house and meeting Joseph, Lydia’s husband, we go back to meet Lydia at the clock shop and tell her Joseph told us to talk to her again. At this point, Lydia starts talking and informs us that she is one of many Patriot spies in Lexington. She gives us a clue that there are many other women who are Patriot spies as well and tells us that if we find one of them, that woman will give us more information if we mention Lydia’s name. Looking at the directory and map, we find Lucy Flucker’s name and house and decide to venture there. Once we arrive, we are greeted by Anne, Lucy’s sister, who’s a Loyalist and talks avidly about the British, making Lucy visibly uncomfortable. We pull Lucy aside and once we mention Lydia’s name, she confesses that she is also a Patriot spy and hides supplies from the British. She tells us to meet with John Buckman, so we go to his tavern where he introduces us to Harriet Muzzey, another patriot spy. She admits that the tavern opened early on April 19th and served a lot of alcohol before the battle, probably making many of the militiamen drunk. We decide to visit the stables where we find a British horse with two bullet holes most likely shot by Americans. Our next stop is at the animal pound where we meet Alexander Harrington who claims that he couldn’t see the battle due to the schoolhouse obstruction but says that if the Americans had fired first, we would find evidence of musket balls near or around the Elm Tree. Although there were no musket balls at the Elm Tree, the Belfry, which is very close to the Elm Tree, had a lot of damage and holes from bullets. However, Esther Clark claims the British shot first and John Parker, a teacher at the school house and the commander of the militia, claims this as well. We visit the field behind the Hancock house and find the letter from Paul Revere under the hindmost nest, a clue we got from the newspaper. The letter is a warning from Revere that the British are coming and says “Be prepared to expel invaders and defend your lives and livelihoods as true Patriots!”. This message is very aggressive and encourages the Americans to fight against the British. We then meet Colonel Isaac Merrill at the Monroe Tavern where he also says the British shot first, but he clearly looks upset about something else and could be saying that just to cover up what really happened. After visiting Nathaniel Munroe’s house which it directs us to the Concord Orchard, Nathaniel tells us that he was at his house during the battle and heard Captain John Parker Putnam yelling at his militia to fight and was very agitated; he heard him say “If they mean to have a war, let it begin here!”. Captain Parker is clearly encouraging his soldiers to fight and even says for it to start at Lexington - he’s advocating for a battle which is supportive evidence that the Americans could have well likely been the first to shoot. We visit Samuel Chandler at his estate where he also tells us from a British perspective that British troops advanced without wanting to hurt the Patriots, but just to question them and threatened to take the American’s guns. He claims the militia shot first to fight back, which makes sense if they felt unsafe near the British. The final clue that tipped us to believe the Americans did fire first because when we went back to Buckman’s Tavern after Sylvaus and another man at Wright Tavern told us to go back, we discovered that the first shot was heard from the tavern. We know that the tavern had opened early for militiamen to drink and they were all congregated early in the morning just a little before the battle officially began. If the shot was heard from the tavern and only the militiamen were there, it serves as evidence that the Americans shot first. Although much of the evidence contradicts itself, as history often does when told from different perspectives, the final clue has more of an unbiased perspective. It is unbiased because although the person who tells the clue is a patriot, they just said they heard the shot come from the direction of the tavern, but didn’t know whether the British or the Patriots fired. Looking at the map, the Patriots were the ones closer to the tavern, leading us to conclude that the Americans fired first.